Up to this point,
we've talked in depth about data science and how it fits within the business.
We now turn our attention to how to actually implement data science initiatives.
We start with the question of human capital.
How do we stand up a team to actually execute on data science initiatives?
What processes do we implement so this team
efficiently and effectively carries out data science projects?
After this lesson, we will discuss another aspect of the implementation question.
How to put in place the technical architecture to support data science initiatives.
For now though, onward into the human capital of data science.
Upon completion of this lesson,
you should be able to successfully carry out the following tasks.
Use the data science heat map as a tool for
specifying roles within the data science organization.
Manage data science operations using structured processes for working communication.
This includes project management,
structured problem-solving, synthesis, and storytelling in communicating the results.
Given the particulars of a company's strategic and operating contexts,
you'll be able to identify
the data science organizational model best suited for that company.
Given a data science strategy,
you will be able to identify and prioritize the mix of
roles you would pursue to build out the data science organization.
You'll describe the project and product management strategies
best suited for a given company's data science organizations.
Given a broad business challenge,
you'll be able to describe how you would approach the development of
a data science strategy using the structured problem-solving method.
Finally, given a business context,
you'll be able to identify strategies for
promoting a data-driven culture throughout that business.
Particularly around guiding employees on how to think through
breaking down problems of identifying data consumers,
data needs and use cases, data sources,
and related necessary pipelines and transformations that need to happen.